The disjoint set is an effective data structure to
track the connectivity of each element in a specific subset
or connectivity of subsets with each other
The famous algorithm which uses it disjoint set is
Kruskal's Algorithm which detects a cycle in an undirected
graph before learning about disjoint set in detail
First let us learn what is disjoint set two
sets are said to be disjoint when they have
no common element
That is if we take intersection of two disjoint sets
the result will be a null set or an empty
set
For example let's assume the first set has elements 157
and the second set has the elements 2689
If we find the intersection between these two sets the
output will be an null set as there is no common
element
This type of sets is called disjoint set
Now let us learn what is disjoint data structure
The data structure that contains a collection of disjoint
sets is called disjoint set data structure
It is also known as a union find data structure
This is all about disjoint set and disjoint
set data structure in this video we have learnt the
need for disjoint set
And what is disjoint data structure
In the next video we will learn the main operations
of in disjoint set.